hello i hope you are having a lovely day
so far
today's video i just wanted to go over
nine tips that i think will be super
helpful
for going back to the gym post lockdown
yesterday was my first gym session back
and oh my goodness i honestly felt a
little bit emotional walking there
it was just the best feeling i will
never ever be ungrateful
for the gyms ever again and it's been
almost five minutes hasn't it like since
the gyms have been shut in the uk
absolute craziness like i never thought
i would ever expect to have five minutes
five minutes five months of
no gyms open in the uk whatsoever
so here we are you know we all survived
and
i had a massive love-hate relationship
with home workouts but i just i think
everyone dealt with it so well and we
got through it
and we're here to tell tale so that's
the main thing i wrote down a few little
tips and i'm just going to go through
them i'll jump straight into it
before we do that if you could hit this
video with a like i would really
appreciate it it just supports my
channel and everything like that
number one take things gradually don't
go into the gym expect him to lift the
same weights
that you're lifting pre-lock down a
really exciting time
and i know you just want to jump
straight into it but that is a really
bad idea and you don't want to injure
yourself
or just dishearten yourself on a hole
like absolutely without a doubt you will
have most likely
lost some strength i know i have and
size with not having access to weights
that's pretty like really normal
but you also like most importantly you
really don't want to give yourself like
the worst doms by overdoing it and then
you know you would literally be in so
much pain i've been there in the past
and you know not being able to get the
most out of my sessions for like a week
or something
so yeah that is definitely do not do
that just go in with the mindset knowing
that you're not going to lift the same
weights and
just start gradually and go from there
so that's the first one number two is
focus on your form that is the most
important thing
like yesterday when i went i went on the
hack squat and obviously haven't been on
or used that machine in like four or
five months so
i just had to read your gummy memory and
that's gonna be pretty natural so just
take the weights completely off
and focus on your form first off you
know you might need to just remind
yourself
and make sure you're comfortable doing
the movement before adding any weight
so it's just like going back to basics
but don't worry that's not going to last
forever it's just going to take a couple
weeks and you'll be
right back in the swing of things
especially movements like compound lifts
you really want to
focus on getting those rights you don't
want to be doing the wrong form like
with weight on top of that the third one
is regular training i really wouldn't go
with the expectation of training like
seven days a week like don't feel like
just because you've
had some time off the gym over the past
few months that you
need to go and do all this crazy
training because you're not going to
give yourself or your body your tissue
your muscles
chance to repair and recover and it
could just lead to an injury which is
just going to prolong your
training in the long run so you're best
just taking things steadily i'd honestly
recommend doing a mixture of gym
training and then still
home training just for the first couple
of weeks until you're feeling
a bit more comfortable like within your
body but i guess it completely depends
like what access
you've had to weights and stuff whilst
like this period
for me for the first two weeks i'm going
to be lifting just like 30 to 40
of my strength and going from there just
most importantly just don't rush your
body
like train three times or something in
the gym or
mix it between doing a mixture of like
home workouts as well as
gym training and just suit yourself like
there's no rush the gym is
going to be there and just take it one
step at a time like you just don't want
to overdo it and then
end up having to take like long rest
periods and just feel
disheartened so number four is don't
increase
your volume and do movements such as
like air squats or anything that you can
sort of do
at home like sit-ups or something like
take advantage
of having the equipment that you have in
the gym and the machines and stuff
in terms of volume you just you don't
need to be doing
six sets of 15 reps of like compound
lifts that's just not going to benefit
you in the long run and
will just be ridiculous you don't need
to do that because you've had time off
just be sort of more patient with
yourself number five
is going with a plan i would really
really advise and i feel like this is
one of the most important things about
having effective sessions i know it
helps me
so so much like if i don't go in with a
plan i just sort of end up wondering
about
and especially if you've got a time
constraint say if you've got a time slot
i know some gyms
are doing that at the moment then you
really want to be effective with your
time
and get the best out of your workouts
and you know feel
at your best really i always find just
like writing in my notes on
my phone i do quite like writing it down
but i just think with like
a health situation of taking a notepad
in and like moving it around the gym i
think it's better on your phone
or if you've got a plan with a coach
anything like that i really think that
is
super beneficial and just going to help
you get like optimized at your results
and just performance in the gym as well
do not slack on warm-ups i've been there
i feel like we've all been there we just
want to dive straight in because you're
so excited to be back i guess and just
even if you're like rushing say if
you're going before work you're training
i really don't slack on one it's like
i've been there i've slacked through my
warm-ups and then ended up getting
injured and having to have like
months off or months not training like a
certain body part and it's so
frustrating
as well as that warm ups are really
going to help you get that mind to
muscle connection and
activate like certain muscles that
you've not obviously you might not have
moved at all
i know some people haven't actually like
done any home workouts because it's just
not for them
it is so crucial and just i can't stress
how important it is like
just don't get too excited and forget
your warm-ups number seven is keep a
focus on
your muscle recovery this is so
important like i've been there in the
past where i used to hate rest days and
i didn't
see them as beneficial i felt like i was
gonna slow down my progress by having
rest days but it's the complete opposite
rest days having at least two rest days
is
so important it helps your muscle growth
just your overall like nervous system
repair and recoup
you've got to optimize your future
sessions just because you're you're like
better rested
and especially with not training for
like a long period of time
it's going to be even more beneficial to
take bet than two rest days
and so yeah that is a definite and the
next thing is add some cardio so
i know like so many people have
regularly and doing more cardio
and i would not say like say if you are
strengthening like that's my main sort
of form of training
but since i've been in lockdown i've
definitely been more active with my
cardio
and doing it more regularly so i would
definitely say to incorporate that into
your new routine especially if it's
something
you've enjoyed and just because it's
going to be like a massive switch up say
if you've been going on like four or
five runs a week
to then just strength training i think
it's a really good idea to incorporate
the two so you could have like
i don't know three or four stretch days
and then add in one full cardio day
something like that or like
still add your little hip workouts in
there's so many ways to just
you know incorporate it and especially
like i said if it's something that
you've actually found
quite like then keep it in lastly number
nine is just enjoy and appreciate the
gym which i'm sure you will do like i
know yesterday i was literally just like
i had the best session
i felt like i could have just kept
training and training and
i just i've never felt more grateful for
the gym in my
whole life and i think that just comes
down to because we've been deprived of
the gym which i guess i never even
thought in my lifetime i would
not have the opportunity to train in a
gym it's united states really made me
appreciate it more
i do think as well that's going to keep
us much more motivated in the gym
knowing that like you know we've gone
without it for a long period of time and
i think that'll
make you just feel like you need to make
the best and most of your each session
without obviously
going you know crazy with your compound
lifts and whacking loads of weight on if
you haven't
moved much or used any weights over the
past few months
that is all of my tips i really hope
that is useful
i wanted to keep this video quite short
and just run through just some
helpful tips that i know will help a few
of you let me know what other videos you
would like to see
next and if you haven't already i would
love you to stick around by liking and
subscribing to this video and
i really hope you enjoy your gym
sessions but i would love to hear if you
are going back to the gym or if you're
continuing doing
your homework out in the comments down
below and i'll see you in
the next video
[Music]
you